All right, so I just have one more app
that I kinda just wanna take a tour of and
kinda show a little bit.
Which is,
there are a lot of applications that need
to persist data over a longer
period of time, right?
And there's just some
practices around that as well.
And so this application, I just added
a to do, I want to quit the app,
I want to come back.
And I want my data to be there, right?
And again, the way that most native apps,
a lot of native apps do this,
is they'll store it in a database,
SQLite being a very popular one,
because the SQLite database does not
involve installing postgress and
spinning up a server.
It's usually a file that is database,
right,
that can theoretically hold on and
persist things that you can query.
And there are a whole bunch
of ways you can do this.
You can use just use the SQLite 3 library,
directly,
you can use Connects, which is what I'm
using, just an abstraction over that.
There's Prisma which is super great.
You can use all sorts of other, I mean,
you can even use the web technology like
IndexedDB or any of those things as well.
It doesn't matter.
The general principles here are what
I care about more than anything else.
A few notes is that if you're
not using Eletcron Forge,
you do need to use this library
called Electron rebuild.
Because, obviously,
compiled native modules like SQLite or
what have you, are not only OS specific
but also a version of node specific.
Back in the day when we all used node
sass, which was the C bindings on LibSass.
You knew that every time you
bumped a version of node,
you had to basically blow out all your
node modules and recompile everything,
because all your compiled modules
are built against the version of node.
And on top of that,
they're all usually OS specific as well.
So what Electron rebuild does is it, cuz
the version of node where you run an npm
install, it's probably not the version
that Electron is running, right?
So obviously,
if you just do an npm install,
you will have the wrong version already,
unless you have to the build,
just assume you will
have the wrong version.
And then by the time you go to
build this for any given, or
package this for
any given OS, by definition,
whatever you npm installed on is
almost definitely the wrong one.
So if you're not using Eletcron Forge,
then you do need to use this library
called Electron rebuild, which will just,
by definition, rebuild the native
modules ,appropriately, for
that version of Electron on the OS
that you're running, right?
If you're using Eletcron Forge,
then you are using Electron rebuild,
you just don't know it, and
it is handling that for you.
And that's true for any of these
kind of native modules in this case.
The other thing to think about is,
where do you put this database, right?
If it was just a Node project,
you'd put it in the directory, right?
But that's not where OSes store
your personal data, right?
In Windows, it's percent sign, all caps,
app data, percent sign, something or else,
and this place that is like a known
place to store user application data.
On Mac OS, it's your library folder and
some sub directories in there,
so on and so forth, right?
So you wanna put user data
files in the place in the OS
where native apps put user data files,
right?
And again, that is different for
every OS but to no one's surprise,
right, there is an abstraction
in Electron for doing that, so
this app.getpath, and
there's a bunch of these.
If I kind of just look here, you can
see there's a whole bunch of paths that
you can get to,
including desktop and document.
So if we were doing,
there was a default directory for
the show open dialog, in the first app,
you could, theoretically,
target it at the desktop documents,
downloads, soap music, right,
cuz people actually put stuff in
the music and pictures folders, I guess.
So on a temp directory,
videos, the user data and
app data are where you kind of store,
app data, I think, is global and
user data is the directory for
that given user logged into the machine.
But it is the place where
you can store those things.
So by definition you do
wanna make sure that you
are storing stuff in the correct spot.
And that you've got the setup
to build the native modules for
the different versions of node and
Electron and platforms you're working at.
Again, Eletcron Forge handles
this all out of the box.
Electron rebuild itself is just
a post install, you just run it and
it will do that for you as well.
But like I said, unless you have
a reason not to use Eletcron Forge,
it's almost always better
to use Eletcron Forge.
All of the best practices are built in,
and a year or two ago,
it wasn't an official, official electron
project, it was a user land kinda project.
Now it is part of the Electron project,
so it is an officially supported
first party tool, and so legacy apps
is a great reason not to use it.
I'm running out of good
reasons not to use it.
And beyond that though,
since your node process is no different,
other than going through a not
particularly Electron-specific
run through about how SQLite 3 works and
how Connects is an abstraction over it,
and me creating a table.
After that, it's just creating a bunch
of methods to pull stuff and put stuff in
the database and the IPC around that.
Right, and again, you might choose to
use Prisma, I would probably use Prisma.
But I wanted to keep it at
least somewhat agnostic,
without too much to read if one was
interested in reading this later.
But the important parts are like to
put any files that you're storing that
are unique configuration
files in the right place.
And to understand that building native
modules comes with a certain amount of
headache in and of itself.
So is local storage the right answer?
Maybe, right?
Is just writing to a text file in that
app user data path the right choice,
if you need that, or JSON file that
you just read from and write to?
Possibly, right?
Those are all very valid options,
and it's as much as you need and
as little as you can get away with.
If you need to write some
SQL to query stuff, yeah.
SQLite 3 or some other, there's a thousand
little file system based databases now.
The thing is you have all of node so
they're all various things
that you can use, right?
But then you also have all the web,
the cache API service workers,
and everything along those lines are also
available to you at the same time.
And either one of those can be the right
choice, depending on what you're doing.
But there are just some things to
think about if you are storing files.
You might not have permission for
a given user to write in the applications
folder in and of itself.
To be clear,
I know how macOS works a little bit better
than I know how Windows works, right?
Technically in macOS,
if we go into Finder,
and one way if you wanna ever see
if something's an electron app,
in macOS every application is
technically a folder, right?
And so could you write in there, if you go
into like notion, show package contents,
it's a folder?
A great way to see if something is
an Electron app is just go to the show
package contents and
go into the frameworks.
If you see Electron in there,
that's how you know it's an Electron app,
right, so theoretically,
could you write to a directory in here?
You totally could.
Should you?
You probably shouldn't.
Look, I wonder what that app directory is,
look a package JSON.
If you didn't use the app folder you'd
be writing in here, which now means it's
shared across all the users, and
also you might not have permission to.
Look they're using Eletcron Forge,
and all those kinds of things, and
you can kind of do all those things, but
just making sure you're trying to
write to the correct directory.
I guarantee you they are not
writing the app data into here,
this is just the actual JavaScript code,
so on and so forth.
I was about to say, did they minify it?
Theoretically, I guess you could probably
go in here and modify the code for
notion or
whatever if you wanted to extend it.
Don't cuz every time it downloads,
it'll all be blown away.
But yeah, just trying to make sure that
you are putting the correct directory.
And again, If you're not using a tool
like Eletcron Forge, if you're using
Electron Forge, just don't think about
building against the version of Electron.
If you're not using something like
Electron rebuild, incredibly important,
but also, my major goal in this kind of
talk right now is to put it into your head
that yeah, you can write to a database and
persist data, right?
It doesn't have to be just
like stuff you're loading.
Or you could load stuff from
an external server, right?
Or you can do both, cuz ideally,
your app, if it's gonna be a desktop app,
should probably work offline, right?
Maybe it is Navigator.online or
is online, go fetch new data.
A lot of the ideas of progressive web
apps probably apply here as well,
except above and beyond just service
workers and stuff along those lines,
you literally have a server, right, and
the ability to persist stuff on
that machine and do things, right?
As we saw before, your Electron
app can theoretically be somewhat
headless as well and
exist in that sense also, right?
And so there's a lot of really interesting
ideas and things along those lines.